### **Parent Topic** : [[02. Neural Networks]]
**Created** : June 13, 2025 | 10:22 AM
**Platform** : #pw 

---


- We can think [[03. Perceptron]] as an Artificial Neuron.
- Inception of Neural Network was with the notion of replicating the Human Brain.
## [[04 Artificial Neural Networks (ANN)]]

1. [[Feed Forward Neural Network (FNN)]]
	- Most Simplest
	- One Layered
	- We have a Linear activation Function
	- [[03. Perceptron]] is the simplest FNN used for Classification and Regression
2. [[Convolutional Neural Network (CNN]])
	- Best for Grid/matrix like data. Image data
		- Cancer Detection
		- Image classification
		- Object detection
	- Popular models
		- AlexNet
		- ResNet by Meta
		- VGG
		- YOLO
3. [[Recurrent Neural Network (RNN]])
	- Sequential Data like audio Data, Time Series Data, Text
		### [[Transformers]]
		- Multi layered RNNs
		- BERT - Used for Translation
		- GPT
4. [[Generative Adversarial Network (GAN]])
	 - Generates Synthetic or Artificial Data. Image input generates image and similar.
	 - These are able to generate new data based on the type of data it's trained on.
5. [[Auto Encoders]]
	- Unsupervised networks that learn efficient data encodings, compress input data and reconstruct it, useful in [[The Curse of Dimensionality]] reduction and *[[Anomaly Detection]]*
6. [[Transformer Networks]] 
	- It has revolutionized [[Natural Language Processing (NLP)]] with ***self-attention*** mechanisms.
	- Powerful in tasks like translation, text gen and sentiment analysis.
	- It powering Models like GPT and BERT
## Learning Mechanism of NN
1. [[Forward Propagation]] 
2. [[Backward Propagation]] 
- Structure
	- Input Layer > Hidden Layer (can have multiple) > Output Layer