- ***Topic :*** [[010. HTML]]
- ***Instructor :***  #ShraddhaKhapra 
- *Date :* July 18, 2025
<hr>

- HyperText Markup language.
	Sets the structure of the Web page.
## Boilerplate Meaning
```HTML
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
	<head>
		<meta charset="UTF-8">
		<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
		<title>Document</title>
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1> Hello </h1>
	</body>
</html>
```

- *Doctype HTML* - Represents html5
1. *html* tag - Root Tag, and starts the hierarchical tags
2. *head* tag - Stores all the meta information and all the linking with other files. Stores Meta Data
	- *Meta Data* means the information about the data which are being used. Data about the data.
	- Which we don't need to show in the browser but the browser should know about the website.
	- Also we add the *title* tag here. Title is the name of the web page. Searches happens by the title name.
3. *body* tag
## Elements and Tags
- P, b, br, heading, 
- Lists
	- li, ol, ul
		- type = 'a' attribute
- anchor element - to display links
	- href attribute = hyper text reference - This attributes hold the page link
	- absolute link - Link to direct live web page
	- relative - linking with out own multiple web pages. 
- image element
	- img tag - only open tag.
	- src attribute - 
	- alt
	- height
	- width 
> MDN Website for documentations for developers. https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/
- HTML is not a Case Sensitive Language.
#### Html entities - 
Used to display certain characters which are not directly allowed by html or the browser, so we use the ampersand symbol. [HTML Entities](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/named-characters.html#named-character-references)
- `&hearts;` to print a heart
- `&lt;`, `&gt;`
- `&nbsp;` for multiple spaces.

- Create a basic Portfolio page using HTML.
## Inline v/s Block 
- *Block* element like `h`, `p` occupies the whole width available on the page, any new text will start from the next line.
	- header
	- paragraph
	- body
- *Inline* element on the other hand takes up only the necessary width needed for the element. Allows new things to appear on the same line.
	- Anchor tag
	- image element
#### Div Element
- *Content Division Element* - Div doesn't have it's own functionality or properties, it is used as a *Container* to hold other html elements or group many elements together.
- It is a *Block* element.
#### Span Element
- This is also works as *Container* used to *group* multiple elements.
- But it's an *Inline* element.

## Semantic elements
Semantic elements is to use the meaningful tags like using header tag for the top of the page, main tag for body, footer tag. by avoiding only div everywhere, div will do the same job, but that's not semantic. <br>
Semantics helps us to read and edit the code later more easily. Also using semantics improves SEO of the web page.
- header
- main
- footer
- nav
- article
- section
- aside
Modify the portfolio page with semantics.
## Emmets
It's like the boilerplate. For many editors like VS Code, the emmets are already preinstalled. Otherwise we can look into this [emmet](https://emmet.io) website.
- Like `!` with this in vs code we can generate the boilerplate code of html.
- Used to create a parent child elements. nested using `p>div>img` - Child relation
- `p>div+img` - sibling using +.
## About HTML 5
`DOCTYPE html` represents html5. Html5 is not just the upgraded version of html, but it represents it has capabilities of many advanced technologies, which are not directly a part of html, but a bundle of modern web technologies. <br>
This includes *html living standard*, along with *JS APIs* to enhance storage, multimedia and hardware access.

#### How HTML Works?
##### HTML Standard
Is a document that tells the browser how html should work, and the browser renders the code to show as an web page. [To know more about HTML5](https://blog.hubspot.com/blog/tabid/6307/bid/5847/a-marketer-s-guide-to-html5.aspx)
